# CL010 - Overview Openstack Administration

## Defining the Cloud (and demonstration).

- What is Cloud Computing?

Cloud Computing is a model of computing where resources are provided as a service over a network. On-demand, self-service, broad network access, resource pooling, rapid elasticity, and measured service. The cloud computing consumer define what kind of resources they need and the cloud provider will provide the resources, the consumer can scale up or down the resources as needed more easily by some interfaces and network, hardware, configuration and software are abstracted from the consumer. The Essentials of Cloud Computing is Self-Service, Multi-Tenancy, Elasticity, Telemetry.

- Self-service: The customer can provision the resources without human intervention.
- Multi-tenancy: The resources are shared among multiple customers.
- Elasticity: The resources can be scaled up or down as needed.
- Telemetry: The resources are monitored and measured.


Traditional Workloads and Cloud Computing Workload are very distinct. Traditional Workloads usually uses scale-up model where the resources are added to the existing server to increase the capacity of processing, managing or something like that, but in Cloud Computing Workload normally is used the scale-out model where we add more servers to increase the computer capacity. The Cloud Computing Workload is more flexible and scalable than Traditional Workloads, because in some cases the most important is the availability of the service.


- What is OpenStack?

OpenStack is a virtual-machines orchestration platform that provides a cloud computing environment. The Openstack is based in a IaaS (Infraestructure as a Service) model, where the consumer can create virtual stacks of resources like virtual machines (Instances), virtual networks, virtual storage, and other resources, all of this service is modular each one with some responsability like Nova (Compute), Neutron (Networking), Cinder (Block Storage), Swift (Object Storage), Glance (Image Service), Keystone (Identity Service), Horizon (Dashboard), etc. The Openstack is open-source and free to use, it is maintained by the OpenStack Foundation and has a large community of developers and users. The Openstack is used by many companies and organizations to provide cloud computing services, like Rackspace, HP, IBM, Red Hat, etc.

*INCREASE DENSITY OF INFRASCTRUCTURE*
- OpenStack is a cloud computing platform that is designed to increase the density of infrastructure. This means that OpenStack is designed to allow you to run more workloads on the same amount of hardware. This is done by allowing you to create virtual machines that can run on the same physical hardware. This allows you to make more efficient use of your hardware resources, and to reduce the amount of hardware that you need to run your workloads.

Openstack provide a flexibility to add new compute nodes when is necessary, this is very useful in some cases like high-demand, maintenance, etc. This is provided by migrating systems between compute nodes, this is done by the Nova service, that is responsible for managing the compute nodes and instances.The basic migration is like shutdown the instance and migrate to another compute node. (Obs: Live migrations are possible, but they need to have a shared back-end storage between the nodes.)